Ghana Card: People borrowing digital address to register
Some Ghanaian citizens are using the digital address codes of others to register to acquire a Ghana Card.

This was disclosed by a recipient of the national identity card in the Adentan Municipality on Thursday, 8 November 2018.

A digital address code is a mandatory requirement for registering for the Ghana Card.

The National Identification Authority's mass registration exercise for the Ghana Card started in the Adentan Municipality on Monday, 5 November.

The NIA has designated 50 centres in Adentan for the exercise, which ends on 24 November 2018. Residents can register on all days except Sundays, from 8 am to 5 pm.

However, some residents who have not been able to generate their digital address codes, are using borrowed addresses from friends and relatives, some of whom live in different areas, for the registration exercise.

Speaking in an interview on the Executive Breakfast Show (EBS) on Class 91.3FM, a registrant, who confirmed knowing of the need to have a digital address to register for the national ID, told show host Moro Awudu that:

"Actually, even I have a colleague who even took it from a friend, he lives at Ashaiman but he took it from a friend who lives at Adenta.

"I think that's what people are doing; they're taking it from, I think relatives and then friends, to do the registration. Some are not even having android phones to download that app, so, they took it from friends and other colleagues to do the registration."

She added: "Some people, with their level of education, they can't even download the app, so, they just take it from friends and when you provide the address, too, they [NIA] just record it, they don't ask you anything, so, you wouldn't know the person took it from an outsider or any other person. When they [NIA] just ask and you provide, that's all, they don't make any inquiries into it, "how come you got it?"

Meanwhile, the Head of Corporate Affairs of the National Identification Authority (NIA), Mr. Francis Palmdeti has urged Ghanaians to register for the Ghana Card in their vicinity and not go into other areas to register.

Mr. Palmdeti, who was speaking on Class91.3FM's Executive Breakfast Show on Tuesday, 6 November, told show host Moro Awudu that:

"We want you to be in your locality where you'll register. Mind you, you'll provide your digital address which should be in that area."